Proposal for the 10.5.0 release post (#29)
jellyfin/jellyfin-blog: content/posts/jellyfin-10-5-0.md

## Web client

This cycle, part of our focus was on improving the look and feel of the web client.

<div class="juxtapose">
    <img data-label="10.4.3" src="/images/posts/jellyfin-10-5-0/old-home.jpg" name="" />
    <img data-label="10.5.0" src="/images/posts/jellyfin-10-5-0/new-home.jpg" name="" />
</div>

The web client now uses the **Noto Sans** font for all the languages we ship with. This makes for a more consistent experience and ensures that **multilingual libraries look unified**.

Jellyfin 10.5.0 ships with the Latin, Greek, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Arabic, Cyrillic, Hebrew, Vietnamese and Devanagari versions of the Noto font, optimized for the web.

<div class="juxtapose">
    <img data-label="10.4.3" src="/images/posts/jellyfin-10-5-0/old-details.png" name="" />
    <img data-label="10.5.0" src="/images/posts/jellyfin-10-5-0/new-details.png" name="" />
</div>

The most noticeable visual change is the **new details page layout**. It puts the artwork of your library front and center while looking more modern and polished.

> We have also completely **overhauled SSA/ASS subtitle support**. Through the use of asm.js and Web Assembly, we now provide improved rendering for these formats, fixing some long-standing issues for anime lovers.

Reviewer: **longstanding** is the correct word here, I made the same mistake.

Author: So, this is an interesting case: both are correct.

Basically, longstanding or long-standing depends on which style guide you adhere to. Both are valid and in current usage, but one may be rare than the other.

See here: https://www.cjr.org/language_corner/long-hyphen.php

Reviewer: I've seen both as well, but @mark-monteiro mentioned that in my review and I saw that the word without the dash is in the dictionary, so I would go for it.

However, if you dug in it deeper than I did and you're sure that the dashed one is better, go ahead :)

Author: It's not better per se, but it's just as valid :)

However, most of the new developments in the web client are not immediately visible. We spent a lot of time preparing and cleaning the code for future improvements.

<img data-label="10.5.0" src="/images/posts/jellyfin-10-5-0/webos-icons.png" name="" />

> A few long-standing issues for WebOS have been fixed as well, bringing us a bit closer to the release of the WebOS app. Among these, icons are now properly working and the client has been reported to work on both WebOS 3 and WebOS 4. We also have plans for the next release that should improve compatibility with earlier WebOS versions and streamline the support of clients using older browser versions as a base. Navigation in the TV layout has also been substantially improved, paving the way for navigation using a remote.

Reviewer: Same here

    <td style="text-align:right">0.055 μs</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">0.051 μs</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">11.2305</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">35272 B</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Another example of the speed improvements to the server this cycle is the following comparison between our previous alphanumeric comparator and the one shipped in Jellyfin 10.5.0, showing a reduction of the execution time of more than 50%!

<table style="width:100%">
<thead>
    <th>Method</th>
    <th>Mean</th>
    <th>Error</th>
    <th>StdDev</th>
    <th>Gen 0</th>
    <th>Allocated</th>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
    <td><b>Jellyfin 10.5.0</b></td>
    <td style="text-align:right">10.81 μs</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">0.079 μs</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">0.074 μs</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">0.1068</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">336 B</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><b>Jellyfin 10.4.3</b></td>
    <td style="text-align:right">23.57 μs</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">0.055 μs</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">0.051 μs</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">11.2305</td>
    <td style="text-align:right">35272 B</td>
</tr>
</tbody>

> </table>

Reviewer: This section is plain wrong. You're repeating a single benchmark and saying that it's two different things, as I commented you on Matrix. However, we still have no confirmation from @jellyfin/backend about what's beign benchmarked here.

Notice that two benchmarks give exact same results

Author: Indeed, I removed that part since we're not sure.

> **Support AMD AMF hardware encoding** is now available on Windows and Linux, as well as support for DVDs as folders, a provider for season images for TheMovieDB and various fixes to media scanning and the way base URLs and DLNA are handled. **Raspberry Pi hardware acceleration** for older models is also now supported. Sorry Raspberry Pi 4 owners, this one needs a bit more work to be supported properly.

Reviewer 2: > Sorry Raspberry Pi 4 owners, this one needs a bit more work to be supported properly.

So H264 HWA Encoding (the really important part) is enabled on Linuxserver Docker on Raspbian and the normal repository method on Raspbian. I have not gotten it to work on any other OS nor our docker image.

Author: So I could change it like this:

```suggestion
**Support AMD AMF hardware encoding** is now available on Windows and Linux, as well as support for DVDs as folders, a provider for season images for TheMovieDB and various fixes to media scanning and the way base URLs and DLNA are handled. **Raspberry Pi hardware-accelerated encoding** for H264 now supported on Raspbian, both using Docker and the repository package on Raspbian.
```

That would make the few restrictions clear.

Reviewer 2: specifically for RPi4. I think Rpi3 can do decoding but @ferferga would know more for the Rpi3. and it's only available on LinuxServer, not our docker image.

Author: ```suggestion
**Support for AMD AMF hardware encoding** is now available on Windows and Linux, as well as support for DVDs as folders, a provider for season images for TheMovieDB and various fixes to media scanning and the way base URLs and DLNA are handled. **Raspberry Pi hardware acceleration** for older models is also now supported. For Raspeberry Pi 4, hardware-accelerated encoding for H264 is now supported on Raspbian, both using the LinuxServer.io Docker and the repository package
```

This seems more correct, then.

Reviewer 2: looks good :)

> **Support for AMD AMF hardware encoding** is now available on Windows and Linux, as well as support for DVDs as folders, a provider for season images for TheMovieDB and various fixes to media scanning, base URLs and DLNA. **Raspberry Pi hardware acceleration** for older models is also now supported. For Raspeberry Pi 4, hardware-accelerated encoding for H264 is now supported on Raspbian, both using the LinuxServer.io Docker and the repository package.

Reviewer: Raspberry Pi acceleration already existed before, however it was used only for **encoding**. With this update both **decoding** and **encoding** are hardware accelerated.

So you must make a clear statement that **full hardware acceleration** is now compatible, just like I make in my blog post proposal.

> As part of a project to move the core Metadate providers to plugins, MusicBrainz now allows you to configure the URL of the instance you want to pull data from, thereby allowing you to host an instance of MusicBrainz and sidestep the global rate limiting enforced by the main service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As part of a project to move the core Metadata providers to plugins, MusicBrainz is now a default plugin and allows you to configure the URL of the instance you want to pull data from, thereby allowing you to host an instance of MusicBrainz and sidestep the global rate limiting enforced by the main service.
```

Author: I'm doing a second pass and caught the Metadata :p I'll change the other bit as well, makes more sense.

Aside from all these improvements, more tests have been added on the server-side to help developers track down issues with new and existing code. This ensures a faster development time and prevents some breakages, which will be caught early through automated testing.

## Documentation

Our documentation team has also been hard at work improving both the user and developer documentation.

Of note recently are the overhauls to the [Networking](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/networking/index.html) and [Hardware Acceleration](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/administration/hardware-acceleration.html) sections.

We now provide an extensive [Codec Support](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/clients/codec-support.html) list and help on [CSS Customization](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/clients/css-customization.html), with examples of useful CSS customizations to apply to your server via the Administration dashboard.

> ## Looking towards the future

Reviewer: Although it's great to have all the names listed here, I would add here a *wider* thanks to every user out there, not just the contributors, just like I did in my blog post proposal. See it for reference.

A lot is happening in the world of Jellyfin recently. Since the release of Jellyfin 10.4.0, we have seen a lot of new contributors joining the team and the speed of development has tremendously accelerated.

With that influx of contributors, we have a few large scale projects for both the server and the web client that should, in due time, bring a ton of improvements to Jellyfin. More information is already available on [GitHub]() if you want to take part in the discussion or implementation.

We'd like to thank all the contributors who worked on this release for their hard work and dedication to making the best FOSS media server possible.

* [Abbe98]
* [anthonylavado]
* [Artiume]
* [Bond-009]()
* [bugfixin]()
* [cvium]()
* [dhartung]()
* [dinki]()
* [dkanada]()
* [dmitrylyzo]()
* [DrPandemic]()
* [EraYaN]()
* [ferferga]()
* [grafixeyehero]()
* [joshuaboniface]()
* [JustAMan]()
* [LogicalPhallacy]()
* [mark-monteiro]()
* [MrTimscampi]()
* [Narfinger]()
* [Nickbert7]()
* [nvllsvm]()
* [nyanmisaka]()
* [oddstr13]()
* [ploughpuff]()
* [redSpoutnik]()
* [sparky8251]()
* [thornbill]()
* [vitorsemeano]()
* [Wunax]()

> * [YouKnowBlom]()

Reviewer 2: Deadlinks galore D:

Author: I'm filling them up :p

Just ST: Picard is taking a bit too much of my attention.
